OK, there were also questions on how, how are they
NOTE CONF
designed and uh conceived, right, and so I think that,
I think that answers um it's quite clear now that
NOTE CONF
you've been through a few tutorials, right, very often when
you're coding this, um, in real life you just pull
NOTE CONF
the framework from a library, right?
Um, but then obviously those libraries are embedded with, with,
NOTE CONF
um, some calculus and mathematical equations behind it.
Um, there are certain assumptions, you can call on those
NOTE CONF
parameters, obviously.
But if you're more advanced into, into the actual stack,
NOTE CONF
you can then directly input your equations and today in
our lecture, we'll actually look um at how this can
NOTE CONF
be done as well, not, not the actual coding bit
but how there's certain basic assumptions that is embedded in
NOTE CONF
those libraries, right, so if you're just doing it and
getting it done, right, you can just pull it off
NOTE CONF
from the library.
If you want to be more nuanced with the parameters
NOTE CONF
and assumptions, then you need to potentially change those um
conditions.
NOTE CONF
So, for example, you know, rather than using Gaussian distribution
for everything that we're describing, you could use different distributions
NOTE CONF
and so forth.
There are questions about How this is compute, like, um,
NOTE CONF
how, how machine learning is different to conventional engineering models,
um, and Prel formulations is what traditionally happens, right?
NOTE CONF
So you, you define, say, basic physics equations, and then
you solve that.
NOTE CONF
But in a machine learning system, that's not necessarily the
case.
NOTE CONF
Uh, there was a question on.
What what is theta, right, that's just a notation for
NOTE CONF
the model itself.
It's a general notation, meaning that you could have theta
NOTE CONF
being as simple as a linear equation.
Or as complex as a polynomial, right, or any other
NOTE CONF
sort of functions in between.
Um, There was a few questions on.
NOTE CONF
When do we accept They're unexplainable, right?
And we've been through this last week or at least
NOTE CONF
the week before, that machine learning nowadays is very probabilistic
and that not often can you fully explain, um, what
NOTE CONF
actually happens.
And so under what premise would you accept that being
NOTE CONF
the case, right?
Do you need to always explain what has happened in
NOTE CONF
the black box to then go, I trust this answer.
Well, it depends, right, it depends on what you're doing.
NOTE CONF
If you're trying to make sales, right, if you're working
with Amazon, and perhaps or maybe, you know, less than
NOTE CONF
that, you could be working for a local store, there's
um there's a machine learning.
NOTE CONF
Back in on the website and you're just trying to
predict sales, then perhaps you know, you just want to
NOTE CONF
predict sales.
Right, you just want to make that job done.
NOTE CONF
You don't really need to explain how, you know, there's
false positives, there's false negatives, and so forth.
NOTE CONF
If you're in a medical imaging um scenario or like
in the healthcare industry, then you don't want to get
NOTE CONF
it wrong.
And so under those situations, you might want to know
NOTE CONF
how machine learning, Came to the decision, right, and that
perhaps that is a fireball approach or maybe it's less
NOTE CONF
accurate and so forth.
So that question on when would you accept um explanations,
NOTE CONF
uh, or and when you not need to explain, um,
it's really depend on your case, on the situation.
NOTE CONF
Um, I think here is also another question on how
does it look like?
NOTE CONF
What does it look like?
So I think going through your tutorials, you'll probably see
NOTE CONF
a lot more of that tangible piece, right?
So here, in, in our lectures, we talk about the
NOTE CONF
high level abstraction, you know, this is what you do,
this is what happens.
NOTE CONF
In the tutorial, you then put the pieces together, right,
and the, and the, So the first layer is to
NOTE CONF
just pull the package down from the libraries, um, the
next layer could then be looking into the equations, optimising
NOTE CONF
the parameters, and then further on, if you're really into
this, then you can look into using Tensorflow and other,
NOTE CONF
uh, packages to just codify or just directly um coat
your, your system that way.
NOTE CONF
Questions between supervised and unsupervised learning, um, what's the difference
between unknown known inputs?
NOTE CONF
Well, basically, if you get a data set, right, and
you have no idea what the output is, that is
NOTE CONF
an unsupervised learning situation.
Uh, and I say no output in the sense that
NOTE CONF
you don't know how it's mapped.
Right, all you get is a bunch of inputs.
NOTE CONF
So if you look at um how the large language
model nowadays uh were assembled anyway, all they did was
NOTE CONF
just take a bunch of inputs from the internet, right,
every single commentary human has made dumped onto the internet,
NOTE CONF
they grabbed that, and then they feed it into a
system, right, a system being some sort of equation that
NOTE CONF
takes all the parameters in there.
And then what happens?
NOTE CONF
Well, something happens in the in the equation and then
out comes, Groupings, right, and based on those groupings, they
NOTE CONF
can then feed it back and then regenerate and so
forth.
NOTE CONF
And then from that process, obviously it's a, it's a
lot more complex than just taking inputs, dumping equations and
NOTE CONF
then coming up with groupings, but the essential understanding is
that in an unsupervised learning, all you get is that
NOTE CONF
input and then you're trying to triangulate or trying to
extrapolate what those groupings and um you know, are.
NOTE CONF
And so based on that, you're discovering the correlations, right,
and this is not quite the same as supervised learning
NOTE CONF
where you take an input and you know there's a
mapped out output.
NOTE CONF
So using the apple analogy, the other day, right, every
other week, we talk about, Um, if you have a
NOTE CONF
bunch of fruits like apples, you know, you can get
the measurement of the size, you can get the weight
NOTE CONF
of the apple, you can get the colour of the
of the shade of the redness, um, and then you,
NOTE CONF
you taste bite it, right, you have a bite and
see how tasty it is.
NOTE CONF
And based on that, you have an output, right?
You know the input correlation, you know the output, and
NOTE CONF
then you're trying to develop the machine learning, the model
behind it all.
NOTE CONF
And from that point onwards, then you can use new
input, so I give you a new apple, give you
NOTE CONF
a size, shape, and so forth, and you can then
forecast or predict.
NOTE CONF
How tasty it is.
So that's obviously the, the supervised learning approach.
NOTE CONF
So that's the, the difference between unknown, input and output,
uh, and how that uh is generally named as supervised
NOTE CONF
and unsupervised training, um, you know, in your model development.
There was a question on how GPUs is a profound
NOTE CONF
impact on AI models.
There's actually a pretty cool um video on YouTube, so
NOTE CONF
you can go and Google it, maybe I'll put on
the URL here afterwards.
NOTE CONF
Um, but it's basically showcasing how parallel processing works.
And what they really did was just paint a picture
NOTE CONF
using a paintball gun, uh, but you know the guys
from Mythbusters, they're quite eccentric, so.
NOTE CONF
What they did was, um, yeah, I think it's best
to, to look at it yourself, I find the clip
NOTE CONF
and put it in.
um but what what GPU allows, um, You know, this
NOTE CONF
area to proliferate is that they can do a lot
of parallel processing.
NOTE CONF
A lot of your matrixes, they need to be um
computed for each individual elements, and they can effectively do
NOTE CONF
that, do that processing quite quickly, um, rather than subsequential
CPU approach.
NOTE CONF
That was, um, that's one of the questions.
So there's another, there's a few questions on how they,
NOTE CONF
how, how students generally don't see how, you know, these
equations are embedded in the code.
NOTE CONF
But, uh, I think, again, because of your tutorials now,
um, I think you'll be able to see how it's
NOTE CONF
an iterative cycle.
Once you have the equation, you're asking the code to
NOTE CONF
basically go in a loop to solve that, and then
outspit the maximum value of something or the minimum value
NOTE CONF
of something, right?
Um, disadvantages of AI use in human development.
NOTE CONF
Not really sure what that means, maybe it's like, you
know, the use of AI.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, I think maybe like, you know, how AI was
used in human, you know, societies.
NOTE CONF
Uh, I think it's more, it's less of a logical
question.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's more like an ethical and philosophical question.
Um, AI, generally speaking, are just a bunch of mathematical
NOTE CONF
equations, just like how you're solving physics or, or maths
or whatever, right?
NOTE CONF
It depends on the question you're asking it.
So what are you trying to solve, is it medical
NOTE CONF
data, is it like, you know, traffic data, is it
climate, climate change, whatever it is, um.
NOTE CONF
I think there's a, there's a lot of tattering to
what you're trying to achieve here.
NOTE CONF
Um, so that was all the questions received through this
muddy cut.
NOTE CONF
Uh, implementation from week 1.
There's, there's also just a slight decline in question sets
NOTE CONF
from week 2 and week 3.
you know, week 2 we had, again, uh, supervised and
NOTE CONF
supervised learning, and then with 3 we had the nearest
neighbour, uh, question on how the distance is adjusted.
NOTE CONF
Well, it's adjusted based on an inverse correlation.
To the actual nearest neighbour.
NOTE CONF
So if you remember, KNN was simply just the distance
between your nearest neighbours.
NOTE CONF
In the weighted version, you're inversing that you're biassing it,
right?
NOTE CONF
So, in a situation where you have different, uh, class
examples, you might want to bias it, so then there
NOTE CONF
is a lot more representation.
OK, so I'll upload all this on canvas, I think
NOTE CONF
it's already in there, um, but yeah, that, that's.
What we have from the muddy cart.
NOTE CONF
Any questions so far?
No?
NOTE CONF
OK.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Well, we'll start with today's lecture then.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So, what have we covered up to this point?
Well, we've talked about how.
NOTE CONF
Um, we have a CSV file, right, very often you're,
you, you get a, um, numerical data, right, as a
NOTE CONF
modality.
Obviously, in the, in the, you know, in the multi-modal
NOTE CONF
world you have sound data, you have visual data through
images, videos and all that.
NOTE CONF
That is all represented using numbers.
And yes, you know, like a JPEG file will be
NOTE CONF
uh some sort of compression, but nonetheless, each pixel can
be represented.
NOTE CONF
As a numerical piece, and so those numerical pieces are
generally listed as columns in a flat file format like
NOTE CONF
a CSV comma denominated uh separated values.
So in each of those ones, you take a feature
NOTE CONF
and then using those features, you're trying to make a
prediction, right, you're trying to correlate that to an outcome.
NOTE CONF
And that's basically how machine learning, the general idea of
that.
NOTE CONF
There's obviously various different equations involved, various different models, various
different layups, um, into how you want to make that
NOTE CONF
prediction, and so, um, we, we, we're going through that,
you know, slowly each week.
NOTE CONF
Uh, we talked about how to deal with missing datas,
right, in situations where sometimes you will have a CSV,
NOTE CONF
multiple roles, multiple columns, dimensions call it, there will be
some missing values.
NOTE CONF
Now those missing values, do you want to take the
whole row out?
NOTE CONF
Or do you want to fill those gaps with some
sort of average?
NOTE CONF
So we went through that last week.
Um, there's also categorical data, where, you know, you have
NOTE CONF
names of, say, suburbs or stations, you're then mapping it
to some numerical value, because equations deals with numbers, not
NOTE CONF
words.
So we must translate that into some numerical value.
NOTE CONF
Um, you don't want to put too many correlations or
relationships between, The labels, right, categorical data may not actually
NOTE CONF
have relationships with another category.
So you can't just simply say, you know, apples are
NOTE CONF
1 and oranges are 2, and bananas are 3, because
whilst that's a mapping, it's not actually representing the relationship,
NOTE CONF
right?
So what happens to 1.5 is that halfway between apple
NOTE CONF
and orange.
Right, so you don't want to have that cardinal value.
NOTE CONF
Um, between those, those labels.
So what we do is one hot in code.
NOTE CONF
So basically we create a new label column and it's
either 0 or 1, right?
NOTE CONF
1 being apple, 0 being not apple, right?
1 being um orange in the second column, and zero
NOTE CONF
not being not orange.
So that's how we deal with the encoding.
NOTE CONF
Um, we talked about how we can measure the performance
of classifiers, right, and basically the model accuracy.
NOTE CONF
So remember how, There was this confusion table, right, confusion
matrix that represents all the positive values, positively predicted values,
NOTE CONF
uh, positively, negatively predicted values, right, and everything in between.
And then based on those scorings, we can come up
NOTE CONF
with accuracy, precision and F1 values, um, and then if
you're burying the threshold, To each of those models, then
NOTE CONF
you can create the ROC curve, the area under that
curve is then determining how well your model or how
NOTE CONF
precise your model may be, or how sensitive your model
can be, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, we talked about different training testing splits.
So in some situations, you want a minimum of 60%
NOTE CONF
training data.
But because if you have limited data source, you could
NOTE CONF
do some sort of intuitive or, uh, innovative approaches to
rotating those training sets.
NOTE CONF
So that's your CV cross validation approach, where you're taking
a junk, uh, a chunk of your data set and
NOTE CONF
breaking it up.
So instead of going, you know, 1st 20% is, well,
NOTE CONF
1st 80% is your testing set, you then ferry that,
so, you know.
NOTE CONF
80, 20, and then you rotate it by 10, and
so your next block will be, you know, the next
NOTE CONF
chunk and so forth.
And the, the, the whole reason to that is just
NOTE CONF
to minimise our overfeeding.
So note that if you fit your data, if you
NOTE CONF
fit your model to your data 100%, then you're mapping
out all the noise and the signal.
NOTE CONF
Which isn't desirable, right, because it cannot be generalised.
If you want to generalise it, then you need to
NOTE CONF
um make it less accurate in the mapping process.
If it's all the way to the other side, right,
NOTE CONF
and unfitting situation, then you don't actually get a model
that can predict effectively.
NOTE CONF
But there's a fine balance between them all.
We talked about Ka nearest neighbour, um.
NOTE CONF
Outputs can often be a hard or soft outputs.
So we talked about how categorically you might want to
NOTE CONF
say, OK, yes, it's, it's a, it's red, it's blue,
right, it's very absolute, but nothing in life is absolute.
NOTE CONF
So it's probably more realistic to say, well, the probability
of it being red is 75%.
NOTE CONF
Right, and the probability of it being.
Blue is 25%, and therefore then, based on your percentage
NOTE CONF
or your threshold, right, you can then now determine whether
or not you should say it's red or blue, right,
NOTE CONF
in the, in the normal nominal case, you want that
threshold to be 50%.
NOTE CONF
So anything more than 50% could be off one case,
anything more less than that could be off the other
NOTE CONF
case.
But in certain situations, you might want to draw the
NOTE CONF
threshold a bit higher.
So, you know, with the 75, 25 um example, you
NOTE CONF
could draw the threshold to be at 70%.
So it's just over the threshold to be classed as
NOTE CONF
red, right, and vice versa to be to be blue.
So adjusting the threshold allows you to adjust how sensitive
NOTE CONF
something is.
Um, and in your tutorials, I think you will have
NOTE CONF
went through all the psychic learn modules, um, the MAT
lab plot modules, and the NumPy modules.
NOTE CONF
So those should be quite, uh, self-explanatory.
So this is recap of last week.
NOTE CONF
And so, that brings us to this week.
So this week we're gonna be talking about conditional probabilities,
NOTE CONF
um.
You know, specifically the base uh rules, right, why this
NOTE CONF
is such a powerful um concept.
I think up to this point, we've approached probability from
NOTE CONF
a freakinous approach where you basically go, well, here's 100,
here's a 100 potential outcome.
NOTE CONF
And you know, I can count 20% of that, 20%
is success or 80% is not, and so I can
NOTE CONF
assign a 20% success as a probability of the outcome.
But what happens in a world where you can't do
NOTE CONF
repeat experiments, right?
How do you assign probability to those?
NOTE CONF
Right, you haven't seen all the possible outcomes and so
you don't know what, what the, what the ratio could
NOTE CONF
be, right?
Think of this like earthquakes, right, earthquake predictions, how do
NOTE CONF
they assign a value on, you know, this is gonna
be like a 20% earthquake within the next year.
NOTE CONF
Because of whatever.
Have they seen millions of years of data including up
NOTE CONF
to this point, or, you know, excluding this point, they
may not have all that data.
NOTE CONF
So this is where conditional probability becomes quite useful as
a, as a framework to being able to uh derive
NOTE CONF
the equations to then be able to make some sort
of meaningful prediction based on limited observation.
NOTE CONF
Um, We talk about classification, using, uh, conditional probabilities and
maximising that is therefore then being able to predict what
NOTE CONF
class something is, and maybe the regression, uh, approaches behind
that as well.
NOTE CONF
And then finally, we're talking about the Gaussian, uh, naive
based approach, um, which is a very common and very
NOTE CONF
effective and powerful classification tool.
Um, and I, I think you'll have, Somewhat of a
NOTE CONF
joy, if you can conceive of a of um example
and then implement this, just to demonstrate the code-based works
NOTE CONF
and that you can make some meaningful prediction from, from
that.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So probability of repeated observation.
NOTE CONF
Now as I saw previously hinted just then.
In a situation where you can count the number of
NOTE CONF
times something happened.
Right, and enough of it so then it's representative, you
NOTE CONF
can simply denote that, you know, success observation over the
total number of times of of occurrences.
NOTE CONF
So think about, You know, die toss it.
You have a pair of dies, you can roll the
NOTE CONF
numbers, you, you know there's um 6 sites to dies,
and so, and so you can assign a probability of
NOTE CONF
that one, if it's a fair dies, that is, 1
out of 6 is of a certain number.
NOTE CONF
You can derive that 1 out of 6 probability.
By not knowing what the dice is and just keep
NOTE CONF
tossing it, like, say toss it 100 times, right?
Within the 100 times, you will come up to, you
NOTE CONF
know, if you map out all the values and the
outcome, you'll probably get to a point where it's quite
NOTE CONF
close to 1 hour 6 being each of those numbers.
You could even do this without, you know, for dies
NOTE CONF
that is not a fair die.
So there's a weighted loaded die, um, you could toss
NOTE CONF
it, you know, 1000 times, and then determine, What the
sites and the ratios are.
NOTE CONF
And so this, this pro population, uh, this approach to
deriving a probability uh ratio is for repeated observation.
NOTE CONF
So here we have an example, again, it's you waiting
for a bus 100 times, 60 of those times it
NOTE CONF
came within 10 minutes, therefore you get a 60% accuracy
or chance of it arriving within 10 minutes.
NOTE CONF
Now if you do this long enough, you'll arrive to
a very um.
NOTE CONF
Accurate, right?
A, a very, uh, accurate, um, probability of what it
NOTE CONF
should be.
So using that, that dye example, if you do it
NOTE CONF
10 times, you might, you might get some uneven value,
right, which is not 1/6.
NOTE CONF
It could be, could be more closer to, to any
number that's not that number.
NOTE CONF
Um, but if you do it a million times, then
I'm pretty sure for fair die anyway, uh, you will
NOTE CONF
get 1/6.
Uh, as a ratio.
NOTE CONF
And so This is uh this is basically saying probability
defined using limits.
NOTE CONF
As N approaches to infinity, you get really close to
the, the ideal probability of that scenario, right?
NOTE CONF
So this is long run frequency, the law of large
numbers basically determines this.
NOTE CONF
Now obviously I've kind of hinting that for a situation
where you have very limited observation.
NOTE CONF
That, that sort of approach really breaks down, right, because
if you don't get enough of those observation, then how
NOTE CONF
do you determine the absolute um ratio of, of things.
So this brings us to a different thought experiment, which
NOTE CONF
is for non-repeating experiments.
Right, so what happens when we cannot measure everything?
NOTE CONF
Well, it comes down to a few assumed knowledge, right?
You could either describe your system based on your, your,
NOTE CONF
uh, understanding of that system, so if I give you
a piece, a dye, right, you're not, you're not sure
NOTE CONF
if it's a loaded die or a fair dye, you
can still see how many sites it is, right, you
NOTE CONF
can then say, OK, well, maybe I can measure each
of those loaded sections and determine an equation, um.
NOTE CONF
And then sort of like, you know, postulate what would
be the outcome if I were to keep tossing this
NOTE CONF
and the, the, the site faces up and so forth.
So that's your very physics approach, right?
NOTE CONF
You can look at a system, you can determine the
equations, you can do a bunch of calculations with your
NOTE CONF
knowledge of the system.
You could also empirically look at the data, which is
NOTE CONF
what we just described, plus it 100 times, and just
statistically speaking, right, count the number of occurrences and then
NOTE CONF
presume some ratio.
But there's also this third approach, which is what we
NOTE CONF
call basin approach.
Is that, you assume that it is some value, and
NOTE CONF
then based on each of those, you know, uh experiments,
addition to that original, Um, probability assumption, you update your
NOTE CONF
system.
So you can assume each of those dye is like,
NOTE CONF
you know.
I don't know, like 1/6, maybe not 16, maybe we
NOTE CONF
call it a four-sided die, maybe like a five-sided die,
right?
NOTE CONF
And so it's 1/5, but maybe it's not 1/5 5th,
right?
NOTE CONF
It could be more like one side's loaded, so one
side's 1/6 and so forth.
NOTE CONF
Whatever it is, right?
You toss it once and then you update your information
NOTE CONF
about that system.
And so this is a very effective way of, Basically
NOTE CONF
dealing with the world, right, in fact, you all do
it intuitively, right, say for example, on day one, going
NOTE CONF
to uni.
You go to the bus stop and you wait for
NOTE CONF
the bus.
Right, first time you do it.
NOTE CONF
Um, maybe, maybe, you know, the bus comes slightly late,
and then next time you're like, OK, well I'll, I'll
NOTE CONF
maybe come earlier, right, and you're adjusting your outcome, your
input to the situation.
NOTE CONF
And so, you know, the next day, you, you see
the bus coming slightly earlier, slightly later, and so forth,
NOTE CONF
and after 10 times, you kind of know roughly what
time to be at the bus stop to get on
NOTE CONF
that bus, right, so it's continuously updating.
Um, And you know, how do we formally represent this?
NOTE CONF
And this is what we're gonna go through today.
So does the probability change as we observe more outcomes?
NOTE CONF
Well, it should, your understanding of that system should change,
if anything.
NOTE CONF
Right, um, your, your understanding or like how confident you
are of that system should change because you've seen it
NOTE CONF
100 times, you've seen it a million times, right, therefore
you know this is within the range, and that confidence
NOTE CONF
interval captures everything.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So in order to sort of really understand this whole
process, we should go through a few key axioms, right,
NOTE CONF
these are core principles, these are core sort of laws
um that a lot of the other equations can be
NOTE CONF
derived from.
And so in probability, there's 3 key axioms.
NOTE CONF
Um, that determines how things are, how things should be.
The first one is normalisation axiom which is basically the
NOTE CONF
probability of all sample space, right, omega here, capital omega
is representing all possible possibilities, right?
NOTE CONF
It's a sample space.
It has to equal to one, meaning that.
NOTE CONF
Basically anything that can happen, right, if you sum up
all the possible outcomes of things, they should all add
NOTE CONF
up to a probability of one, right?
And that's just basically it it's kind of trivial, right?
NOTE CONF
It's basically saying that.
You know, What can happen can happen, what cannot happen.
NOTE CONF
We'll never be in the space, um, but you can
imagine what you cannot conceive is simply maybe just a
NOTE CONF
lack of understanding on how you see that probability space,
right?
NOTE CONF
The second one is non-negative, non-negativity.
Which is the probability of any event A.
NOTE CONF
Must be able to, must have a probability of more
than 0, but less than 1.
NOTE CONF
Right, so the worst case that can happen is a
zero probability.
NOTE CONF
OK, never happening like at all.
Again, it sounds trivial, but you'll see how all this
NOTE CONF
sort of adds up in the, in the very end.
And then finally, you have the additivity, which is Event
NOTE CONF
A and B.
Right, given that it's a disjoint event, so whatever that
NOTE CONF
happens in event A cannot simultaneously be defined as happening
for event B.
NOTE CONF
Right, so you can represent the two possible events in
this sample space as two circles that are disjointed, or
NOTE CONF
simply mutually exclusive.
So, you know, what's the chance of people sitting in
NOTE CONF
all these chairs here?
Right, well, if someone's sitting in this chair, they can't
NOTE CONF
simultaneously be sitting in that chair.
Right, so those two events are going to be disjointed.
NOTE CONF
And so from this point, you know what.
Probability of A or B happening is simply the probability
NOTE CONF
of.
Event A Plus probability of event B.
NOTE CONF
So what's the chance of those two chairs, you know,
either of those chairs being filled, right, using that example
NOTE CONF
just then.
Well, it's the probability of this chair being filled, plus
NOTE CONF
that chair being filled.
So if you sum, you know, the, the whole lecture
NOTE CONF
hall as probabilities of, you know, each of the chairs
being filled, well, the sum of everything, right, meaning that
NOTE CONF
what is the chance of each of these chairs being
filled.
NOTE CONF
By people is simply just the one over however many
spaces there is here, um, you know, as a summative
NOTE CONF
formulation.
And this is only happening if it's a a.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, if, if A and B are mutually exclusive.
OK, it doesn't include what can happen for both situations.
NOTE CONF
Right, which is the very final case.
So using this overlapping Venn diagram, you can see what
NOTE CONF
we're talking about.
For event A to happen and even B to happen
NOTE CONF
where they're both mutually exclusive, they're separate circle, right, quite,
quite trivial.
NOTE CONF
What can happen for both A and B, so for
example, what's the chance of you wearing blue today and
NOTE CONF
the fact that you're seated in this chair, right?
Well, they're not mutually exclusive, you could sit in this
NOTE CONF
chair and be wearing green, pink, purple.
You know, shirt or whatever.
NOTE CONF
But you can have both situation both conditions actually being
met as well.
NOTE CONF
So that's mutually non-exclusive.
And in that case, it's simply the over the intersect
NOTE CONF
between those two men.
Then you have A or B, which is that to
NOTE CONF
chance situations, so if a person comes in, what's the
probability of them sitting in any of those spaces?
NOTE CONF
Well, it's just the, the summation of this probability.
And the final case is more tricky, which is this
NOTE CONF
conditional probability.
What is the chance of this happening given that, OK,
NOTE CONF
so what's the chance of.
You're sitting in this chair, given that you're wearing blue
NOTE CONF
or something, right, it's not a good mapping of it,
um.
NOTE CONF
But you know it is conditional on it, so for
example, if there's only one space there, what's the chance
NOTE CONF
of someone coming late and then sitting in that chair?
Right.
NOTE CONF
So the probability of independent events.
That are events that do not influence each other, OK,
NOTE CONF
so.
You can imagine two events, A and B, that are
NOTE CONF
independent.
Given that you know knowledge of event A, it does
NOTE CONF
not influence event B.
So using a uh deck of cards for example.
NOTE CONF
If I were to draw, if I were to draw
the next card and I go, you know, uh uh.
NOTE CONF
King of hearts or something, or a king, right, if,
if I tell you the next card is a is
NOTE CONF
a it's a, it's a king card, right?
That's 1 in 13 chance, but it doesn't actually give
NOTE CONF
you more information as to which suit it is.
Right, because the suit it could still be 1 out
NOTE CONF
of 4.
And so that's a very clear example of.
NOTE CONF
The two independent events, the suit, and then also the,
the, the number on the, on the uh on the
NOTE CONF
actual club on the.
What do you call it the Yeah, the, the number,
NOTE CONF
right?
So these two events are independent.
NOTE CONF
And so Can you make some sort of assumption?
Um, whether or not.
NOTE CONF
You know, if I draw one card, I can determine
what the other suit is.
NOTE CONF
Well, not necessarily, right?
So whether or not we know the cut of an
NOTE CONF
ace, the probability of it being a spade remains 1
out of 4, meaning that A and B are independent.
NOTE CONF
This independency is quite important because very seldom do you
see the real world where you capture the different dimensions
NOTE CONF
and the features are actually being independent.
Right, more or less they're quite correlated, but you just
NOTE CONF
don't know the correlation.
You don't know how each of those are influencing each
NOTE CONF
other.
But nonetheless, right, in order for the formulations to work,
NOTE CONF
there is a certain base assumption that you have to
assume that it is independent.
NOTE CONF
The independency actually makes the computer a lot easier because
you assume there's no correlation, therefore you can approach it
NOTE CONF
with some rudimentary and hence the naive phase, the naive
bit, right, there's a certain naivety.
NOTE CONF
Um, in, in the assumption of the system.
Um, And yeah, like it it without, without that soft
NOTE CONF
premise, then a lot of the maths will not work.
So here, knowing that the 1st 3 flips were heads,
NOTE CONF
does not change the probability of the 4th 1, right?
Again, this is a demonstration of the independence.
NOTE CONF
Flipping coins, a sequence of coins, right?
Not that you're gonna flip a head and then the
NOTE CONF
next one's gonna be a tail, right?
Because then you can just stack up the, the odds
NOTE CONF
saying, well, since I flipped 4 coins being heads, the
last, the next one must be a tail.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Does anyone go to like the casino?
NOTE CONF
Just, just out of curiosity?
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
No.
OK, alright, well, don't start.
NOTE CONF
But nonetheless, right, a lot of probability, um, came from
that world.
NOTE CONF
So if you ever do go, right, you'll notice that
there's always these gamblers, right, trying to mark down numbers
NOTE CONF
like in a background, right, they somehow thinks that things
are correlated, but it's not really, is it?
NOTE CONF
You know, they go red, red, red, and then they
think the next one must be black.
NOTE CONF
Right, there is actually no logic to that.
But it's a superstitious thing, right?
NOTE CONF
You know, they go, oh well, it must be like
after 5 reds, it has to be black cause the
NOTE CONF
law of large numbers dictates that it's an even, even
split, right, for a, for a blackjack, so, well, not
NOTE CONF
blackjack, baccarat gang in a way.
But again, there's no guarantee.
NOTE CONF
So that's one of the fallacies that people often make,
right, that things that aren't correlated or aren't dependent on
NOTE CONF
each other, they make it as such it is.
Alright, so this is a.
NOTE CONF
This is an interesting one.
So the, the question is, here's a trivia question, can
NOTE CONF
mutually exclusive events be independent?
If you think about it, right?
NOTE CONF
The mutually exclusive events are the two events, A and
B, not overlapping each other.
NOTE CONF
And they'd be independent.
Well, I think it's only under certain situations they are,
NOTE CONF
right, um.
But basically, you know, you can, you can go and
NOTE CONF
think about that because, you know, telling you distributor doesn't
actually help you.
NOTE CONF
Understand the, the situation.
But go off and, and see, see what that is
NOTE CONF
and come back with an answer next week.
Now if you look at For those two, so what
NOTE CONF
we talked about here is probability of independent events.
So what happens to the probability of two independent events,
NOTE CONF
right?
The joint probability of something happening.
NOTE CONF
It's not the same as the overlapping ones, right, where
both can happen is, You know, separate.
NOTE CONF
What can happen here and can happen there.
Right, now the, the likelihood of two events happening together.
NOTE CONF
Right, given that there's an independent event.
Will be denoted as event probability of A times probability
NOTE CONF
of B.
So the probability of A and B in this case
NOTE CONF
equals to probability of likely of A times likely of
B.
NOTE CONF
Which is the probability of both A and B occurring
at the same time, and this means that the independent
NOTE CONF
events, the joint probability is simply the product.
It is not the summation of the things, it is
NOTE CONF
the product of.
So what's the chance of raining, raining and.
NOTE CONF
That, you know, the bus is late.
Well that's a bad example actually because very often, you
NOTE CONF
know, the, the weather condition is coupled to, to the
traffic condition, so that's not an independent event.
NOTE CONF
So like for example if you draw a car off
of, you know.
NOTE CONF
From, from the deck, right, 52 cards, you go, draw
a card, what's the chance of that being, uh, of
NOTE CONF
hearts or something, and that it rains outside as well.
Well it's simply the multiplication of the two events happening.
NOTE CONF
Right, maybe 1 in 4 chance of it raining today,
and then there's a 1 in 52 chance of you
NOTE CONF
drawing the cart, the multiplication of those two is the
likelihood of you drawing that and then looking out it's
NOTE CONF
raining, right?
So here, here's a, here's a some more closer to
NOTE CONF
heart example.
If you use a coin toss, right, what's the chance
NOTE CONF
of getting heads in the first flip and then getting
heads again in the second flip?
NOTE CONF
Well it's a 1 in 4 chance, right?
So all your, all your casino card games, all your
NOTE CONF
casino sort of, um, odds, right, tossing the die, there's
the sick bow, right, if everyone, people know of that
NOTE CONF
game is really 3 dies and then you, Kind of
toss it and then you could either get 666 or
NOTE CONF
you know.
Two ones or, you know, big or small, being less
NOTE CONF
than or more than um 15 or something, right, that's
a, that's a game of independent events, each of the
NOTE CONF
day.
And then the chances of things happening, the outcome.
NOTE CONF
So that's what caught a joint probability of events happening.
And then finally, right, remember the very first diagram I
NOTE CONF
had the, the Venn diagram, the two circles not being
overlapping and then overlapping and then the, the shading of
NOTE CONF
all the circles within that, and then you also have
this very final situation.
NOTE CONF
Where it's conditional probability of events.
So, this is also known as, you know, probability of
NOTE CONF
dependent events.
What is the chance of this happening and then that
NOTE CONF
happening?
So using my example of cloudy day, what's the chance
NOTE CONF
of the bus coming late?
Well, it depends if it rains, right?
NOTE CONF
If one event is coupled to another event, Then you
know how to perhaps calculate the likelihood of that other
NOTE CONF
event, right, which is what you want, so there's a
sequence of events, where you don't know the final probability
NOTE CONF
of something, but maybe you know the stack up of
those, Conditions, and so that's, that's the premise of what
NOTE CONF
you're trying to, um, You know, use in terms of
calculating the final probability of that event.
NOTE CONF
Alright, so, For events that are dependent on each other,
right, for example, the probability of it raining later, given
NOTE CONF
that it is raining now.
The probability of the next event changes based on how
NOTE CONF
the first event influences it.
So if it's not raining now, what's the chance of
NOTE CONF
the next 10 minutes raining?
Probably slightly lower, but if it's raining right now, then
NOTE CONF
10 minutes later and it still rains, then it's higher,
right?
NOTE CONF
It's kinda um easy to to conceive that.
So the probability, the conditional probability allows you to update
NOTE CONF
what your understanding of that situation is.
Right, given that if I look out and it's not
NOTE CONF
raining now, I can estimate that the chance of it
raining later lowers, so I don't properly, I don't have
NOTE CONF
to bring an umbrella.
Right, and the way we read this is, I think
NOTE CONF
we talked about this last time, which is given a
certain event, given that event B has occurred, what's the
NOTE CONF
probability of, A current.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So here's the notation to it, and you can see.
A occurring, right?
NOTE CONF
A given B.
Probably that a given B is the, the first notation
NOTE CONF
there, right?
Um, and then you have basically ANB, the probability of
NOTE CONF
both occurring over just the marginal probability of um, Event
B.
NOTE CONF
So to put some concrete examples around this, right.
Is this a table, like, So, um, let event A
NOTE CONF
be raining in 10 minutes' time.
And let B, event B, be raining now.
NOTE CONF
Now, suppose we make the following observation over 10 days,
right, so empirically, we're trying to derive the probability of
NOTE CONF
each of those events, right, event A and B.
And you can see If we were to try and
NOTE CONF
understand this, we must look at all the situations where
condition B is fulfilled.
NOTE CONF
So I've highlighted all the sections where, you know, the,
the, the raining is raining, so raining now, right, you've
NOTE CONF
got 2466 out of those 10 days being raining now.
And in all those situations.
NOTE CONF
There's only 4 of those days that would be raining
10 minutes from that point.
NOTE CONF
So, that's event A.
The question is, what is the probability of Event A
NOTE CONF
have been conditioned on event B.
So it's almost like going backwards, isn't it?
NOTE CONF
It's going backwards where instead of going, well, what what
what's the chance of, You know, it's raining 10 minutes
NOTE CONF
from now, you don't know that, but what you do
know is what's the chance of its raining now.
NOTE CONF
And so you go through this analysis, and then you
can see.
NOTE CONF
I can actually derive this to be 2 out of
3 chance um that event A happens, condition on event
NOTE CONF
B.
OK.
NOTE CONF
Bit confusing for now, I think.
So if I were to ask you a question on
NOTE CONF
what's the chance of winning a lotto ticket, a Powerball
ticket?
NOTE CONF
Well, you have to pick 8 numbers.
From 1 to 35.
NOTE CONF
And so effectively, there's only one winning draw in all
the permutations or all the combinations of numbers, right?
NOTE CONF
And so you can derive the probability of winning, which
is event A.
NOTE CONF
It'd be one out of the combination, combinatorial factorial of
1 to 35, right, without replacing the numbers.
NOTE CONF
OK, so since there's only one combination of the winners,
That that that's it, the first equation is really a
NOTE CONF
chance.
But then as time goes on, as the numbers starts
NOTE CONF
drawing out, you, you get a 2 and you match
that, you get a 6, you match that, you get
NOTE CONF
a 15, you match that.
You want to understand that each of those time points,
NOTE CONF
how your probability changes.
Right?
NOTE CONF
It's quite an interesting, you know, game.
You, you just, you got a bunch of tickets.
NOTE CONF
And as the number comes through, you're like, Oh, look,
I, I got this number.
NOTE CONF
So does my odds increase?
Well, the answer is yes, your odds do increase in
NOTE CONF
a, in sort of a perceived manner, right?
Because at the end of the day, you only have
NOTE CONF
1 in 135, uh, chance of winning.
But at least moving to that point, You, your, your
NOTE CONF
odds are improving.
Now obviously if you don't get any of the other
NOTE CONF
numbers, your odds just drops to 0.
You don't win any.
NOTE CONF
But given this scenario of event B, which is numbers
being drawn and you get 26, and 15.
NOTE CONF
How, how does the art changes?
Right.
NOTE CONF
And the odds changes instead of one, instead of needing
one combination.
NOTE CONF
All you now need to do is match the other
5 numbers.
NOTE CONF
For the remaining from the remaining 32, and so your
odds actually improves as time goes on, until obviously you
NOTE CONF
drop to 0 and then you realise, oh, you know,
you don't win anything.
NOTE CONF
So, this is the, the power of the updating aspect,
right, so previously I've hinted, you can count number of
NOTE CONF
occurrences, you know, and there's a fixed number at the
beginning of all this experiment that you know this is
NOTE CONF
likelihood.
In this scenario, is the likelihood actually changes as time
NOTE CONF
goes on with new information.
Right?
NOTE CONF
And so how does this translate to machine learning?
Obviously, you know, you could train your data set.
NOTE CONF
And then you can feed it with new information, and
those information will change the odds of your machine learning
NOTE CONF
model to then tell you or predict a so with
higher accuracy of certain outputs.
NOTE CONF
And you can see how this correlates quite well.
Right.
NOTE CONF
But knowing B doesn't change the probability of A.
Because A and B is independent, right?
NOTE CONF
Getting more numbers does not actually improve your odds on
the winning ticket.
NOTE CONF
The winning tickets still one in however many millions combination.
But at least the, the odds leading up to that
NOTE CONF
changes as time goes on.
OK, so is your understanding of the system that that's
NOTE CONF
what makes a difference.
So all this actually came along because of this guy
NOTE CONF
Thomas Day, um, you know, I think he's a mock,
and at one point he was basically asking this very
NOTE CONF
simple question of like, Can I know where Something like,
so, so he blindfolds himself, he asks his mate to
NOTE CONF
chuck balls at something, right, he puts a ball on
the table, and then he blindfolds himself, turns back to
NOTE CONF
the ball, asks his mate to chuck balls at it,
and then report back to him whether or not it's
NOTE CONF
on the left side or the right side of that
target.
NOTE CONF
And so over time, he actually come to a um
well like the first time he does it is like
NOTE CONF
on the left side, and then next time he does
it, it's like oh it's too much on the left,
NOTE CONF
and so forth.
And with each of those reporting, he was able to
NOTE CONF
then, Postuate or speculate where that target was based on,
you know, how the balls are landing.
NOTE CONF
This is actually quite interesting, right?
Think about it, because you're deriving new information off the
NOTE CONF
system without knowing anything about it by the interaction it
has with new information.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So then he came up with this formula, um, which
NOTE CONF
is the conditional probability, and he goes, conditional probability describes
the probability of event A occurring given that event B
NOTE CONF
has already occurred.
It's the same, it's the same equation as before.
NOTE CONF
And since joint probability is symmetrical, right, or symmetric, yep,
so you can, you can basically say A and B,
NOTE CONF
the probability of A and B happening, it's the same
as B and A, right, trivial definition.
NOTE CONF
You can replace the top bit with this new equation
and rearrange it.
NOTE CONF
And so what you end up is this Bay theorem
right here.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So, probability of A given B is really the same
NOTE CONF
as the probability of B given A.
Times the marginal probability of likelihood of A over the
NOTE CONF
likelihood of B.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So what we are typically interested in in is what
is the probability of A.
NOTE CONF
But we don't often get to know that, so we
have to go backwards, right, what we do know is
NOTE CONF
probability of B.
Given a And then we can do this multiplication, we
NOTE CONF
can do this manipulation.
Yeah, you can see in a few slides how this
NOTE CONF
directly maps into machine learning, right?
Because we want to know the outcome of something.
NOTE CONF
But we don't know the outcome of something, we know
the features, right, each of the dimensions.
NOTE CONF
Right, we have that from the training set.
So we can do this reversal and go, given the
NOTE CONF
Features, right, the occurrences of features, right, each of those
columns in your, in your CSV we can now determine,
NOTE CONF
right, what, what is the most likelihood outcome, OK.
Which is very useful, yeah, it's knowing.
NOTE CONF
OK, so.
So we'll we'll, we'll hold this thought for now, right,
NOTE CONF
we'll go into the scenario where.
If we can count events as, as before, right, events
NOTE CONF
being either 1234, some countable events, we can represent them.
By either counting or some general function.
NOTE CONF
Now, if you use heads and tails as coin flips
as an example, you very often can represent that um
NOTE CONF
probability, right, all the possible outcomes in the distribution.
Right, and that distribution can be rewritten as a um
NOTE CONF
it's a geometric distribution.
And so the general formula is listed there.
NOTE CONF
It's like a binomial equation, right?
One can happen, the other can happen.
NOTE CONF
You do a multiplication of that, and then you have
4 events where, you know, that you could have both
NOTE CONF
heads, one head and tail, one tail and head, and
then 2.
NOTE CONF
Fails, right, you do 3 times, 4 times, 5 times,
and then generalise it, if you do it in times,
NOTE CONF
how would that distribution occur?
Right, so that's what a distribution of outcomes is talking
NOTE CONF
about.
Now, strictly speaking.
NOTE CONF
If you're, if you're trying to remap all the possible
outcomes in the sample space to some sort of number,
NOTE CONF
right, you need something called a random variable function.
Right, random variable being.
NOTE CONF
The events are, the events are random, the mapping of
it is not.
NOTE CONF
And so strictly speaking, uh, a random variable is a
mapping from a sample space.
NOTE CONF
Remember that little Venn diagram where there's a box and
there's event A and B.
NOTE CONF
You're trying to map that into some sort of real
number line, right?
NOTE CONF
And obviously you can imagine how conceptually difficult this is,
right, all the possible combination of things, right, that you
NOTE CONF
can either think of or you can, You have not
thought of, right, being mapped to some numerical distribution, where
NOTE CONF
you can say, OK, well, the likelihood of this happening
is therefore 60% or 0.0009% or some other value, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, So how do you generally do this?
Right, this is really a question, and fortunately, you know,
NOTE CONF
we have something called a distribution.
Right, this is the probability distribution of events.
NOTE CONF
Now, we typically, and we've heard us talk about it,
um, many times in various different units as well.
NOTE CONF
Normal distribution is what typically happens.
But understand in, in, I think in week 1 or
NOTE CONF
week 2, we went through, it's also other probability distribution.
OK.
NOTE CONF
For discrete events, right, things that we can count, we
use something called a probability mass function, right, where it's
NOTE CONF
almost, you know, quantize or it, right, there's a quantization
to that.
NOTE CONF
Before events that are continuous, right, we, we use a
different, um, terminology called density function, very much like a
NOTE CONF
mass density, right?
So if you, if you want to look at what's
NOTE CONF
the density of, of a piece of, uh, steel bar,
you can do the, you can do a cut for
NOTE CONF
each of them and then times the weight, right, for
each of those sections, sum them all up, you get
NOTE CONF
a density function.
So here's a, here's a listing, I think in week
NOTE CONF
1 or 2, I put up a chart, right, showing
different curves and whatnot.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's just a numerical function of that, you don't
need to worry too much about it, just know that
NOTE CONF
they exist.
Um, In most cases, You can use a normal distribution
NOTE CONF
to represent everything.
But in certain situations, right, that is not.
NOTE CONF
Precisely enough.
So for events like people coming into a shop, right,
NOTE CONF
a time event.
Right, uh, person distribution is actually much more accurate in
NOTE CONF
describing random independent events.
Where there's a trickling factor coming in, right.
NOTE CONF
Why is this important and powerful is that instead of
being able to pluck those numbers that you saw two
NOTE CONF
slides ago, Right, as actual numerical numbers, you can plug
in the whole distribution and then postulate.
NOTE CONF
How your final probability of outcome is being described by
that properly, um by that distribution.
NOTE CONF
OK, so That is a very interesting approach to solving
the probability, instead of saying events happening.
NOTE CONF
You're saying what's the likelihood of an event happening, and
then using that likelihood distribution as a way to plug
NOTE CONF
into this formula, you then get a likelihood of the
outcome.
NOTE CONF
Now if you look at the apple, oranges, examples that
we talked about, you know.
NOTE CONF
It doesn't sound like it makes a lot of sense
because you know, I give you an apple, it's either
NOTE CONF
tasty or not tasty or not yet tasty or whatever,
right, it's 3 classes.
NOTE CONF
You know, why do I have to have a distribution
of, But you want some sort of confidence interval in
NOTE CONF
that, in that analysis.
You want to be able to say, Um, you know,
NOTE CONF
with certainty that this apple is tasty.
Right, 60% of the time.
NOTE CONF
You can then vary that that threshold, right, record that.
So there's many parameters now you can play with, if
NOTE CONF
you were to then, Give um some sort of confidence
in your prediction.
NOTE CONF
So, let's look at, let's put them all together.
Right, a Bayesian approach to probability.
NOTE CONF
Is where Instead of plugging in the events, right, you're
assuming that certain events happens that are independent of each
NOTE CONF
other, right, and that reversing this using the Bay theorem.
You could then extrapolate what's the likelihood of an outcome
NOTE CONF
based on those features that you see.
Right, so if you think about using your phone, right,
NOTE CONF
the facial recognition feature.
What's the likelihood of the person swiping the phone is
NOTE CONF
the real authorised user?
Well, it depends, it depends.
NOTE CONF
Like, it depends on the original, um, assumption.
The assumption could be, you know, a non-zero value, but
NOTE CONF
a very low value that this is the right person.
But as you scan it, it's gonna get all the
NOTE CONF
features like your eyes, your nose, your mouth, whatever.
It goes into the machine, does some compute.
NOTE CONF
And because it's looking for certain features, it updates the
probability, right, it sees your eyes being in the right
NOTE CONF
place, the spacing between your pupils, you know, the spacing
between your eyes and your nose and your mouth, and
NOTE CONF
as each of those compute comes along, it updates the
probability and then eventually goes, yup, this is the right
NOTE CONF
person, and unlocked.
Right, so you can see how that translates into the
NOTE CONF
the self iterative process in your, in your um prediction
model.
NOTE CONF
For a continuous event, instead of, instead of counting occurrences,
we're using probability functions.
NOTE CONF
The Gaussian approach is a, is a very common one.
In fact, when you go into SIT, I learn, the
NOTE CONF
library that you pull out, right, there's a function called
GNB, right?
NOTE CONF
Gaussian naive base.
The assumption it makes is that it is a Gaussian
NOTE CONF
distribution.
Right, so that's maybe a gross assumption, it may not
NOTE CONF
always apply to the system.
But you know, in most cases it could work.
NOTE CONF
If you're in a more advanced scenario where you want
to explain how things work and, um, perhaps a better
NOTE CONF
mapping of the real world situation, you may have to
go into the library and actually, instead of using the
NOTE CONF
library equations, you would say, well, I will assume this
first condition is of this distribution.
NOTE CONF
The second feature will be of this other distribution, and
then do the, do the calculation manually that way.
NOTE CONF
OK?
And so these two equations, the same thing, obviously, one
NOTE CONF
being discrete events, one being continuous events, allows us to
describe uncertain events mathematically and estimate the probability, right?
NOTE CONF
And we can continuously update the understanding of event A
condition on.
NOTE CONF
Event B is happy.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So I briefly already hinted this, how this directly translates
to machine learning, you can imagine you get a CSV
NOTE CONF
file, it's got multiple roles, you've got features 123, until
end, and you'll try to predict label Y.
NOTE CONF
In a supervised environment, you already have that mapped out.
Apples are red, apples are between certain weights, uh, apples
NOTE CONF
have certain size, therefore the label is either tasty not
tasty, right?
NOTE CONF
But using this, we can basically go, OK, well, should,
should the apple be tasty?
NOTE CONF
Well, we see red, OK, is it that red, is
it this red?
NOTE CONF
Which one is it?
Condition on the retinas, the updates of it being more
NOTE CONF
tasty or being, you know, likelihood of being tasty goes
up or down.
NOTE CONF
And then the fact that you see a certain size,
being of a certain class, you know, the, the likelihood
NOTE CONF
goes up and down.
And so forth.
NOTE CONF
So intuitively it sort of makes sense, this mathematically is
a bit more complex than, you know, intuition.
NOTE CONF
Um, but you can see there's a, there's a numerator
and a denominator, right?
NOTE CONF
And when you're trying to make the prediction, you're actually
trying to get just the numerator as the maximum likelihood
NOTE CONF
of events.
So I already hinted that, you know, in a training
NOTE CONF
process, you have two phases.
You've got the training, right, say 200 row, you take
NOTE CONF
80% of that, you use it to train, right?
And once you determine the model, you fix it in
NOTE CONF
place, right, that's your thigh here, that's your, that's your
theatre, right?
NOTE CONF
So there was a question in the money cart, in
which one we used this generalised notation, what is theatre?
NOTE CONF
And theatre is basically, The mathematical formulation, right, which is
the model.
NOTE CONF
And you're trying to maximise that, you're trying to maximise
the likelihood of that theatre giving you a parameter.
NOTE CONF
And then in the generalised approach, right, so once you've
trained your data set, you train your model, sorry, from
NOTE CONF
the data, right, determine the, the parameters of data, you
then use it to predict.
NOTE CONF
And at that point, that's when you're trying to find
the, the maximum likelihood of um.
NOTE CONF
The features.
OK.
NOTE CONF
So remember, we're trying to predict how tasty an apple
is.
NOTE CONF
Right, we're trying to predict this by first looking at
the different features, retinas, weight, size.
NOTE CONF
Once we've understood how, OK, generally, you know, the maximum
size possible, but not too, not too big of an
NOTE CONF
apple, but the redness is, you know, not the reddest,
not the, you know, least red, right, gives you the
NOTE CONF
taste this apple.
Once we know those conditions, We go backwards and go,
NOTE CONF
well, given those items, what's the likelihood of, of the
final apple being tasty?
NOTE CONF
And so the mathematical equations to finding that backwards is
basically this arcmax function that you're using.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So, what I forgot to really say is there is
NOTE CONF
a prior probability likelihood, right, which is this probability of
C.
NOTE CONF
So if you recall two slides back.
Right, you've got this PA PA is your uh prior
NOTE CONF
knowledge.
It's your prior probability.
NOTE CONF
And this other one is your posterior, which is after
the fact.
NOTE CONF
So, you're constantly updating your knowledge of the event by
using the knowledge of the event at the beginning, at
NOTE CONF
some point, update it with new information, and then your
posterior is really what you're now settling in.
NOTE CONF
For each iteration, you then plug this thing back in
and then do it again.
NOTE CONF
Right, obviously in the machine, in a, in a coding
sense this automatically happens with the iteration functions, but um,
NOTE CONF
Effectively this is how you compute.
Um, And so you can see the predicted class, right?
NOTE CONF
In this case, it is a classifier, right?
It's, it's like, you know, using the apple again.
NOTE CONF
It's either tasty, not tasty, not yet ready or whatever,
right?
NOTE CONF
You've got your understanding, you've got your different features, right,
labelled as X1 to XN.
NOTE CONF
All right.
And then the condition on that plus, either taste or
NOTE CONF
not, condition on those features.
And the maximum likelihood of that is your arc max,
NOTE CONF
right, which then gives you the cla classification.
And so using this formula, right, again, these are, these
NOTE CONF
are directly pulled out from the library.
You don't really need to codify this, but just understand
NOTE CONF
when you pull the library, this is the iteration it
goes through.
NOTE CONF
It first trains it based on the split, then it
predicts this other thing, then it pulls out the parameters
NOTE CONF
that gives you the most likelihood of something happening, and
then it spits out a number, right, or a class
NOTE CONF
to tell you, yes, it's tasty, not, it's not tasty.
But behind that, you're right, you can use the other,
NOTE CONF
you can use the other syntax um method to pull
out the actual probability, right, it's 0.6%, 0 sorry, it's
NOTE CONF
like 60%, it's tasty, 40% not tasty.
And so that's your confidence of the prediction.
NOTE CONF
Using this equation, the predicted class therefore is one that
maximises the likelihood, the product of likelihood and prior probability,
NOTE CONF
OK.
So how training, how the training data actually reduces the
NOTE CONF
complexity of events.
Now if you were to just to um without training
NOTE CONF
data, you will need to guesstimate or need to estimate
some sort of function.
NOTE CONF
But because, you know, like if you don't have any
prior knowledge to the system, how, how do you even,
NOTE CONF
where do you even start?
That's why training data or the training approach.
NOTE CONF
Reduces the complexity greatly.
Because based on what you can see in the collect
NOTE CONF
data.
You can now plot this to get a distribution, right,
NOTE CONF
and you could use and assume that the distribution is
a Gaussian normal distribution.
NOTE CONF
And from that, you can parameterize the whole distribution using
these 22 parameters, which are, you know, your, your means
NOTE CONF
and your fairiness.
So as you know, that's an exponential, um, that, that's
NOTE CONF
a normal distribution function that centres around a note, which
is your mean, and then from that you have your
NOTE CONF
variants, so how widely something spreads.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So using just two parameters, you can define the whole
set, and if you have multiple features, you can imagine
NOTE CONF
each of those features, there's a distribution for each of
them.
NOTE CONF
The multiplication of that, right, would now be able to
describe in full, right?
NOTE CONF
At, at least if you're finding the maximum point of
this distribution, what's the likelihood of something happening?
NOTE CONF
There's a certain assumption here that.
Each of those distribution is independent of each other, right,
NOTE CONF
hence the naive face, the naive part, right?
I think this is a If you move on to
NOTE CONF
next, well.
Let me just go Right, so, if I just skip
NOTE CONF
ahead, I think this will actually make a lot of
sense.
NOTE CONF
If you assume, right, so here's an example, right, and
I actually have this in a pie script, I'll upload
NOTE CONF
as well.
Um, assuming 500 rows of historical data, so using the
NOTE CONF
empirical approach, you have collected the data of people coming
into a store and then people who are buying, and
NOTE CONF
the average sales amount.
Based on those two parameters, now obviously here you can
NOTE CONF
already see there's an issue because people coming in and
people buying are correlated.
NOTE CONF
It's not independent, they're actually dependent.
But in most cases, if you assume there's an independency
NOTE CONF
between each of them, the model works good enough to
give you this um this sort of um prediction.
NOTE CONF
But nonetheless, right, if you just go, count the number
of people walking right on the street, count the people
NOTE CONF
walking into the shop.
Right, count the number between every hour, say for example,
NOTE CONF
the, the people buying, and then the average sales price.
So just think about, You know, Lululemon or something, right?
NOTE CONF
There's one in Wynyard, right?
There's people walking through the station, Wynyard station, they can
NOTE CONF
do the count.
They can go, OK, with the percentage of people coming
NOTE CONF
into the store, they can do that every hour.
They can go, All right, well, people look around, people
NOTE CONF
buy stuff, people don't buy stuff.
And then what's the average price they, they, they purchase?
NOTE CONF
They've got 500 rows of this information.
Now the prediction here, the model requires you to predict
NOTE CONF
how many staff I need to staff on that day
at different hours to try and surf the, the store,
NOTE CONF
so then.
People don't have to wait too long, right, very sensible
NOTE CONF
questions there.
It depends on what's the revenue and and potentially can
NOTE CONF
you afford those stuff.
Now, from these 3 different features, we, we can parameterize
NOTE CONF
them, right?
Uh, with a distribution, and you can see I've basically
NOTE CONF
generated this information that you have customer walking in, uh,
ranging, say, number of customers per hour.
NOTE CONF
A number of um.
Customer buying things, and then the sales amount.
NOTE CONF
Each of them can be described in a normal distribution
of some sort so.
NOTE CONF
You plug that into the formula, right, and so if
you assume you have a data frame with those information
NOTE CONF
already.
You wanna, you wanna come up with a classing system,
NOTE CONF
right?
You train your data set.
NOTE CONF
Right, and you split that with a with an 80/20,
right, test is only 20%, you split that.
NOTE CONF
You do a naive based um model, training, you fit
that, you then be able to predict using new information.
NOTE CONF
And you can see how, how everything works, right?
So assuming that in for the last 10 hours, you
NOTE CONF
do this mapping.
And on the 11th hour, you provide it with some
NOTE CONF
new information.
This model should now be able to predict whether or
NOTE CONF
not the, um, you know, the next hour based on
those numbers is gonna be high sales, low sales, or
NOTE CONF
medium sales.
Right, so that's a tangible outcome of what we just
NOTE CONF
talked about in the last hour and a bit.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And so you can play around with this and, and
tinker with it, literally, um, and see what you get.
NOTE CONF
So we go back a bit, right, this is just
another example, instead of a continuous, um.
NOTE CONF
Sampling, right, or prediction of the sales number, you could
do a classifier, um, using the same approach, because remember,
NOTE CONF
if we don't describe the situation using a probability density
function, we use a probability mass function, then we can
NOTE CONF
still use this same approach to do classification based on
different classes instead of a continuous output.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, similar situation, assume that you have a
data set of 500 samples, you've got 200 of them
NOTE CONF
belonging to class 1 or class 0, right, and 300
belonging to class 1.
NOTE CONF
These are label datas, obviously, right?
You have the prior probability of 0.4 and 0.6 respectively,
NOTE CONF
because it's simply 200 out of 500, right, being plus
0 and 300 out of 500 being plus 1.
NOTE CONF
You have that prior prior knowledge.
You compute the means and variants of each of those
NOTE CONF
features, and in this case there's only sort of two
features, X1 and X2.
NOTE CONF
Yeah, you parameterize them, and then you feed it with
some unseen data, right?
NOTE CONF
And then from that point.
You train.
NOTE CONF
Sorry, I mean, you train based on what you have.
You have the boundary conditions, right?
NOTE CONF
And you can see how shaded the, the colours just
to illustrate how there's a, there's a certain condition, um,
NOTE CONF
or decision condition, right?
The red ones are, any dots that in, is in
NOTE CONF
the red area will be classed as red, which is
class one.
NOTE CONF
And then for blue it's lustre.
And then from that point, the system should actually be
NOTE CONF
able to update itself.
Um, with every sort of iteration of information coming in.
NOTE CONF
If you want to make the, the model dynamic and
stuff fixed.
NOTE CONF
OK, so there's some, there's some nuance there.
But you can kind of generally see how all this
NOTE CONF
applies to each other, right?
Um, and what you really wanted to do is train
NOTE CONF
the system to be able to tell you, There's a
boundary condition here, and that if you display this properly,
NOTE CONF
you can see and visualise that.
OK, so, um, examples, yeah, we've talked about how using
NOTE CONF
the sales data, um, Limitations, right, so what I just
presented there.
NOTE CONF
There's an assumption, there's an assumption that each of those
features are independent, which is not.
NOTE CONF
People walking in and people buying are correlated, it's probably
the same person, right, it has to be a subset
NOTE CONF
of the other one.
Um, they can't just pop out somewhere, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, The distribution of people coming in, generally are not
well represented by Gaussian distribution, right, those kind of type
NOTE CONF
events should actually be represented using a person distribution.
Um, number of people making purchases is a binomial distribution
NOTE CONF
depending on the count.
Uh, the sales amount though, are normally distributed.
NOTE CONF
So after 3, there's actually one sort of correctly described
distribution of events, which is the sales number.
NOTE CONF
Um, so, you know, with this, there's a, there's a
certain gross assumption that needs to be baked in, and
NOTE CONF
we kind of expect you to be able to explain
your model in your project.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, moving forward, when you go into your
project work.
NOTE CONF
You find a bunch of problems and then you go
and grab a bunch of data, and from those you
NOTE CONF
derive your models, but then there's a certain assumption that
are inherent in your in your thinking process.
NOTE CONF
We want you to be able to detail that in
your report.
NOTE CONF
OK, it's not good enough to just say, Mo, Model
B works the best in describing the theme because it
NOTE CONF
gives you a high accuracy number.
We want to know what's the limitation.
NOTE CONF
Right, if you were to do more on this, how
would you do it differently?
NOTE CONF
Right, and that's really the analysis and the, and your
job as an engineer in this whole work is supposed
NOTE CONF
to provide value to.
So here you can then see, you know, using this
NOTE CONF
as an example, um, we came up with the boundary
conditions, um, to then make predictions and then from that,
NOTE CONF
you know, it's quick interpretable classification on, on at what
hour, right?
NOTE CONF
Um, the sales will go up because of foot traffic
and, and general people buying things.
NOTE CONF
So we kind of already talked about how there are
different ways of representing things uh PMF right?
NOTE CONF
uh probability mass function and probability distribution function, um, you
know, uh, just different ways of representation, so you can,
NOTE CONF
you can have a play around with that.
I think this will all come together in your um
NOTE CONF
tutorial this week when we actually go into some of
the data set, um, and then play around with with
NOTE CONF
making this model and you can tune the parameters.
OK, so I think.
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
We talked a bit about how to just pull this
NOTE CONF
directly out from, from the Python libraries, right?
So PyitLearn actually has this naive base, um, library, and
NOTE CONF
you just simply put your data sets, split them up,
or clean it first, do the pre-processing, clean it, split
NOTE CONF
that, train your model, fit train, and then predict.
And you can actually split out the probability score instead
NOTE CONF
of the actual class if you want, and then you
can uh test how accurate by different training methods and
NOTE CONF
um thresholds and so forth.
OK, so the top is how you utilise the library.
NOTE CONF
The bottom section of the code is simply just the
display of the accuracy of this model.
NOTE CONF
OK.
So I think you've done this, um, a few times
NOTE CONF
now.
Shouldn't be too hot.
NOTE CONF
OK, as a recap, as a recap, so we've introduced
the concept of conditional probability, um, through a bunch of
NOTE CONF
axiom definitions.
We've talked about the joint probability, um, of events.
NOTE CONF
So independent events, what's the chance of them both happening
at the same time?
NOTE CONF
Simply the multiplication of that, if it's mutually exclusive, then
it is the summation of those events.
NOTE CONF
The person in in classroom here, sits at this seat,
they cannot sit at that seat.
NOTE CONF
What's the chance of both seats being filled?
Well, you know, it's either or.
NOTE CONF
Um, The conditional probability of something, so.
Um, there is a correlation of given something happening, what's
NOTE CONF
the chance of the other thing happening?
OK.
NOTE CONF
So, so there's a range of uh.
Conditions Independency, mutually exclusive events, we talked about that.
NOTE CONF
Random variable as a function to map.
The real space of outcomes to a numerical space, right,
NOTE CONF
and this is now, Can then be parameterized uh in
a soft distribution function.
NOTE CONF
You've got discrete events distributions, you've got continuous event distributions.
The maximum likelihood of something happening is really just the
NOTE CONF
peak of those distributions, right, as we kinda.
So I really understand it intuitively anyway, um.
NOTE CONF
And then the machine learning approach to how all this
translates into a GNB right, method.
NOTE CONF
Uh, there's a certain baked in assumption that there's independencies,
but nonetheless, even though it's not truly representative of the
NOTE CONF
real world, it's good enough to do, um, most of
the calculation and it handles the mathematics well, right?
NOTE CONF
It allows you to compute this, um, outcome with enough
precision, right, within a given amount of time.
NOTE CONF
So that's really the key here, is out of practicality,
To assume something is independent even though they're not.
NOTE CONF
Right, so bear that in mind.
And then moving forward, obviously you're not required to codify
NOTE CONF
or write your own equation, you're simply required to pull
them out from the um psychic learn library.
NOTE CONF
But there is that assumption that everything is a Gaussian
distribution, and that's not always the case.
NOTE CONF
So with that, um, that concludes this week's lecture.
Do we have any questions?
NOTE CONF
I know it's like a really rough and quick through,
uh, put off, you know, the whole probability segment, but,
NOTE CONF
I think all this comes together in your tutorial, when
you're playing around with the data set, playing around with
NOTE CONF
the actual parameters, and just bear in mind every time
you spit out something, remind yourself where you're in that
NOTE CONF
whole pipeline, right?
Add more complexity as you go on, and then try
NOTE CONF
to use a generative AI chat GPT.
You try and answer your own questions, right?
NOTE CONF
You could put in some of these slides, right?
You can screenshot them, chuck it in, and then go,
NOTE CONF
ask it the question, you know, role play as this
engineer, am I understanding this correctly?
NOTE CONF
If I have XYZ, does this mean blah blah blah,
right?
NOTE CONF
And I think it's this dynamic interaction with the knowledge
that actually gives you a better understanding on what you're
NOTE CONF
dealing with right now.
OK, any questions?
NOTE CONF
Everyone did OK with the quiz?
I assume?
NOTE CONF
No, yes, Easy.
Alright, there's another one coming along next week, so, so,
NOTE CONF
you know, every 2 weeks we'll have a quiz, but,
um, I assume everyone will have formed their teams by
NOTE CONF
now, at least you put your names into the canvas.
Um, we have tutors renaming those groupings, so just make
NOTE CONF
sure that you're like tutorial A, you know, tutorial 1.
Free or something, check your name, um, yeah, have fun,
NOTE CONF
cool.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
It's like, you know, the Gaussian distribution.
Like, like the one that had middle.
NOTE CONF
So the, the most common one is this normal distribution,
which also is known as Gaussian distribution.
NOTE CONF
There's other parameters that shakes the shape of it instead
of like doing this, whatever.
NOTE CONF
This, the really sharpness of it.
It's just different ways of like there's different parameters.
NOTE CONF
The calculation of You just plug that in, you start
like giving a number into the formulation.
NOTE CONF
You plug in the whole formula.
So like when you're describing the formula, there's only two
NOTE CONF
terms you need to, which is the mean and.
But very often like in the back end when you
NOTE CONF
pull this from the library, it does the first compute
and go look through all the robes, what's that, doesn't
NOTE CONF
plot it because computers doesn't.
But then it comes out with, OK, well, he's the
NOTE CONF
mean of something, he's the fairy something.
They use this to then compute the mix.
NOTE CONF
And all that sort of stacked up and then get
this number, this number is the probability of.
NOTE CONF
You know, given this new line of condition, what's the
chance of that being certain plants?
NOTE CONF
Oh, right.
Random variable Me At the table of You don't need
NOTE CONF
to No But when you see that in the post,
you know that oh right this is.
NOTE CONF
What we pays a bit of, I mean it will
be useful to go so this is the parameter.
NOTE CONF
Most cases, the Gaus.
I don't think they are like niche.
NOTE CONF
That I think there's Asking for output.
Know I think it's like quizzing on the nuances of.
NOTE CONF
I think the quiz is 234.
That that's not syntax.
NOTE CONF
Generally if you're if you're like doing the coding of.
You will have Some some very typical some places will
NOTE CONF
be like, oh you do mind.
I so many like abstraction questions.
NOTE CONF
I My question Yeah, it's it's really pretty.
The American lives how you have Sample say may not
NOTE CONF
There's all the possibilities And somehow you need to represent
this.
NOTE CONF
The best way to do that For What I think
you want to describe that.
NOTE CONF
OK Not that.
Whatever This case is made.
NOTE CONF
Ethereum.
The You see the highest like.
NOTE CONF
A And like I And your The classify the the
Oh In order to protect the light.
NOTE CONF
You understand.
Yeah, so like if I give you a new line
NOTE CONF
of.
I I want to know What's the likelihood of We'll
NOTE CONF
compute this one.
Based on what I've seen This is the likelihood Based
NOTE CONF
on Be in the food, the maximum 2.
Now you Same road because So like I give you
NOTE CONF
500 roll, you train more.
I'll give you the 501.
NOTE CONF
Are you using the machine learning to predict?
But he Is it That possibility Now Whatever the distribution.
NOTE CONF
Nonetheless I It's Somewhat like it's unintuitive like.
Easy to say it like.
NOTE CONF
How come why position on.
have seen So even in maximum likelihood of 5.
NOTE CONF
He Or if it's a 15.
At the You want to integrate this 501 Models are
NOTE CONF
free.
so But generally speaking, like in the.
NOTE CONF
It What Oh, like one B of 2, right?
The It Why The The likelihood All the possible parameter
NOTE CONF
And I mean not always And 35.
I I think Uh, I think it makes sense if
NOTE CONF
you start playing around with.
OK, I stop this person.
NOTE CONF
And yeah, honestly like.
This directly Cool, all right.
NOTE CONF
Thanks